US HealthCare Questions 

Group A 

1.What is risk sharing? Ans: A compnay does insurance of their employee in one insurance company where there is risk for all employee  

 

2.Grandfather status? Ans:Some plan before march 23,2010 

 

3.Max amount you pay for covered medical expernses in a given year? --Ans:Out-pocket limit 

 

4.Programs created by gvernment? Ans: Medicare Medicaid  and Medicare Advantage 

 

5.Difference betwenn Medicare and Medicaid ?  

Ans:Medicare is for person>65 or disabled people,Members pay a small premium  and Medicaid is for person all who have low income ,do not pay a premium 

 

6.What are Four ways of paying for heathcare in usa:  

Ans 1.Out of pocket--Payment is directly made from patient to Provider? 

    2.Individual Private Insurance (“Private Non Group”)--? 

    3.Employer("Group Insurance") 

    4. Government insurance 

 

7. Full Form of ESI --Ans:Employer Sponsored Insurance 

 

8. What are healthcare premiums? --Ans: Collections of premiums help an individual to minimize their risk of high expenses if needed in future. 

 

9. Is life expectancey in the US higher or lower than other countries?  --Ans: Lower 

 

10. Which country/countries has the highest no. of prescription drug users aged 18 or older in year 2013? --Options: NZ,US, AUS, UK, FR, GER  --Ans: NZ & US(2.2) 

 

11. Who among the following pays the healthcare premiums during company insurance policy? --Options: Providers, Employers, Employee, Brokers  --Ans: Employers 

 

12. What are deductibles and co-pay? -- Ans: Deductibles - Prespecified amount that should be paid by the employees/citizens upto certain limit. 

     	     Co-Pay - Small amount of the total that should be paid by the employees/citizens. 

 

13. What are the types of Private Insurance?  --Ans: Fee For Service(FFS) and Managed Care 

 

14. Is health insurance tax-free in US?  --Ans: Yes 

 

15. What promoted the idea of healthcare programs in the US? --Ans: During WWII, Wage control was implemented by US govt, so US companies started providing fringe benefits  

to attract employees for their company. 

 

16. What is causing US Healthcare to be expensive compared to other developed countries?  --Ans: More us of medical technology & higher healthcare prices rather than more 

frequent doctor visits/admissions. 

 

17. What are the groups that medicare provide service to? --Ans: People above 65 years, disabled, kidney failure and ALS(for paralysed) 

 

18. Who do medicare pay to in Part C? --Ans: Private Health Insurance 

 

19. What is the difference between medicare and medicaid on the basis of service primarily diagnosed. --Ans: Medicare= for above 65 years old people & Medicaid= for poor people 

 

20. Does the rules of medicaid vary according to the states? --Ans: Yes 

 

21. What is the name of the book that has the list of  all the different things doctors actuallyt do? --Ans: Relative Value Unit(RVU) 

 

Group B 

What % does Clinical Care contribute to total health outcome?   

      Ans: Clinical health care contributes about 20% of total health outcome.    

  

What % does Social & Economic factors contribute to total health outcome?   

     Ans: Social and Economics factor contributes about 40% of total health outcome.  

  

What are three important health insurance plans?  

Ans: Commercial plan, Medicare Program and Medicaid Program.  

   

Who and when started Medicare Program?  

Ans: Lyndon Johnson in 1965   

  

Main difference in service of Medicare and Medicaid?                             

Ans: Medicaid was serving poor and Medicare was for elder citizens(over age 65).  

  

6) What does group of people pay to Insurance Company?  

Ans: Premium  

  

7) What does people who already have insurance pay to Providers?  

Ans: Copey, Deductible ( small amount)  

  

8) What does Providers provide to patients?  

Ans: a.Goods b. Services  

  

9) Does employer pay premiums to Insurance Company for their employee?  

Ans: Yes  

  

10) Most common way in which Americans get Health Insurance?  

Ans: Employer  

  

11) Medicare is free for the patients who are of age?  

Ans: over 65  

  

12) Medicaid is only/ mainly for?  

Ans: Economically poor people  

  

13) What is called the amount you must pay each year before you plan to start for a covered medical expense?  

Ans: Deductible  

  

14) Which of the following countries contributes least in health care spending as a % of GPP (1980-2013)  

Options:                     a)France                    b)US                c)Canada          d)Australia  

Ans: Australia  

  

  

15)What are the 4 ways of paying for healthcare in US?  

Ans:       1)out of pocket payment  

2)Individual private insurance  

3)Employer  

4)Government Insurance  

  

  

16)How much will insurance company pay as co-insurance ?  

Ans: 80%   

 

 

Group C 

 

1.What is the cushion of money called collected by insurance from the individual level? ->Healthcare Premium  

2.Which is the most popular method of insurance? ->Employers Insurance  

3.What do we call the insurance provided by Employers to their employee? ->ESI (Employers Sponsored Insurance)  

4.What are the types of private Insurance? ->Fee for Service and Managed Cure  

5.What are some problems of Fee for Service? ->High cost, Fluctuation in Doctors Fee  

6.What is the main factor for Medicaid? ->Low income people/Low Financial Status  

7.What is a copay? ->fixed amount paid by a patient to the provider before receiving the service. 

Group D 

How many peoples are there according to insurances? 4  

2. What are the terms for government provided insurance? Medicare / Medicaid  

3. Give three examples of provider. Nurses, Dcotors, clinic  

4. Which country spends most percentage of GDP in Health Care Sector? USA  

5. Give few examples of goods that are provided by Providers? Pills, Foot cast, crutches  

6. What are 3 services provided by providers? Time, Skills, Expertise  

7. What is 1 key advantage of Health Insurance? Risk Sharing  

8. What was the first term used that derived to be Health Insurance? Fringe Benefit  

9. What is the term refereed to protect against large expenses ? Risk Pooling  

10. Two tyupes of Private insurance in US? 1. Fee for Service 2. Managed Care  

11. What are the employers who take insurance called? Insurer  

12. Give one disadvantage of fee for service? 1. High cost 2. Fragmanted 3. Cost Sharing  

13. What is the type of insurance which overcame drawbacks of Fee for service? Managed Care  

14. What are two types of tearing in managed care Insurance service? High- and low-level tearing  

15. Among payer, employer and provider who keeps the network of medical representative? Payer 

 

 

 

Group E 

What % does Clinical Care contribute to total health outcome?  

Ans: Clinical health care contributes about 20% of total health outcome.   

What % does Social & Economic factors contribute to total health outcome?  

Ans: Social and Economics factor contributes about 40% of total health outcome.  

What are three important health insurance plans?  

Ans: Commercial plan, Medicare Program and Medicaid Program.  

Who and when started Medicare Program?  

Ans: Lyndon Johnson in 1965  

Main difference in service of Medicare and Medicaid?  

Ans: Medicaid was serving poor and Medicare was for elder citizens (over age 65).  

When was first fringe benefit provided to the worker in United states?  

Ans:1940’s  

What is ESI?  

Ans: Employer Sponsored Insurance  

8)What are the types of Private Insurance? What are they?  

Ans: Two Types. Namely, Fee for service and Managed care.  

9)When was employer sponsored Insurance initiated?  

Ans:1960s  

10) What are the two focus areas of Cotiviti to serve the market players of US Healthcare?  

Ans: Risk and Quality  

11)Who is Provider?  

Ans: Hospitals and Medical officers  

12) What are the functional components of Healthcare Delivery?  
Ans: Financing, Insurance, Deliver, Payment  

13) Name one client that acts as a broker or consultant for Cotiviti  

Ans: Aon, Lockton  

14) Name some Health plan clients of Cotiviti.  

Ans: network health plan, well care and Health care  

15) what are the top five country which spending highest percentage of GDP in Health care?  

Ans: US, FRANCE , SWEDEN, GERMANY and Netherlands  

 
